docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

Django Admin Magic reads settings via the `AUTO_ADMIN_` prefix. These map to defaults in `django_admin_magic.defaults`.

## Core selection
- **AUTO_ADMIN_APP_LABEL**: string or list. App(s) to register. Default: `None`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_APP_LABELS**: list of app labels. Default: `[]`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_AUTO_DISCOVER_ALL_APPS**: bool. Discover all installed apps with models. Default: `False`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_DISABLED**: bool. Global kill switch. Default: `False`.

## Safety and context
- **AUTO_ADMIN_SKIP_COMMANDS**: list. Management commands that disable auto-registration (e.g. `makemigrations`, `migrate`). Default: `["makemigrations", "migrate"]`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_SKIP_IF_ADMIN_NOT_INSTALLED**: bool. Skip when `django.contrib.admin` is not in `INSTALLED_APPS`. Default: `True`.
- Env overrides: set `DJANGO_ADMIN_MAGIC_DISABLE=1` or `AUTO_ADMIN_DISABLE=1` to disable.

## Admin defaults and heuristics
- **AUTO_ADMIN_DEFAULT_EXCLUDED_TERMS**: list of substrings filtered from `list_display` (e.g. `"_ptr"`, `"uuid"`, `"id"`, `"pk"`, `"search"`).
- **AUTO_ADMIN_DEFAULT_DO_NOT_REGISTER_FILTER_STRING_LIST**: model name substrings that prevent registration (e.g. `"Historical"`).
- **AUTO_ADMIN_ADMIN_TUPLE_ATTRIBUTES_TO_LIST**: attributes coerced to lists so they can be mutated (default: `list_display`, `list_filter`, `search_fields`, `readonly_fields`).
- **AUTO_ADMIN_REORDER_LINKIFY_FIELDS**: bool. Avoids a linkified field being first in changelist to prevent checkbox conflicts. Default: `True`.

## Registrar helpers
You can bypass settings and specify apps directly from `admin.py` using:
```python
from django_admin_magic.utils import (
    create_auto_admin_registrar,
    create_auto_admin_registrar_for_apps,
    create_auto_admin_registrar_for_all_apps,
)
```

These utilities respect the same safety checks as settings.

Commit message:

Increment version to 0.1.8 in pyproject.toml and enhance documentation for Many-to-many field handling. Added configuration options for M2M rendering, including maximum items displayed and display attributes. Updated mixins and utilities to support new M2M features, ensuring linkified representation in changelists.

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

Django Admin Magic reads settings via the `AUTO_ADMIN_` prefix. These map to defaults in `django_admin_magic.defaults`.

## Core selection
- **AUTO_ADMIN_APP_LABEL**: string or list. App(s) to register. Default: `None`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_APP_LABELS**: list of app labels. Default: `[]`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_AUTO_DISCOVER_ALL_APPS**: bool. Discover all installed apps with models. Default: `False`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_DISABLED**: bool. Global kill switch. Default: `False`.

## Safety and context
- **AUTO_ADMIN_SKIP_COMMANDS**: list. Management commands that disable auto-registration (e.g. `makemigrations`, `migrate`). Default: `["makemigrations", "migrate"]`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_SKIP_IF_ADMIN_NOT_INSTALLED**: bool. Skip when `django.contrib.admin` is not in `INSTALLED_APPS`. Default: `True`.
- Env overrides: set `DJANGO_ADMIN_MAGIC_DISABLE=1` or `AUTO_ADMIN_DISABLE=1` to disable.

## Admin defaults and heuristics
- **AUTO_ADMIN_DEFAULT_EXCLUDED_TERMS**: list of substrings filtered from `list_display` (e.g. `"_ptr"`, `"uuid"`, `"id"`, `"pk"`, `"search"`).
- **AUTO_ADMIN_DEFAULT_DO_NOT_REGISTER_FILTER_STRING_LIST**: model name substrings that prevent registration (e.g. `"Historical"`).
- **AUTO_ADMIN_ADMIN_TUPLE_ATTRIBUTES_TO_LIST**: attributes coerced to lists so they can be mutated (default: `list_display`, `list_filter`, `search_fields`, `readonly_fields`).
- **AUTO_ADMIN_REORDER_LINKIFY_FIELDS**: bool. Avoids a linkified field being first in changelist to prevent checkbox conflicts. Default: `True`.

## Many-to-many rendering
- **AUTO_ADMIN_M2M_LIST_ENABLED**: bool. Enable M2M fields in changelist with linkified items. Default: `True`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_M2M_LIST_MAX_ITEMS**: int. Max related objects to display per row before clipping with `...`. Default: `10`.
- **AUTO_ADMIN_M2M_LIST_DISPLAY_ATTR**: string. Attribute on related object to display. Use `"__str__"` for the string representation. Supports dotted paths (e.g., `"profile.name"`). Default: `"__str__"`.

## Registrar helpers
You can bypass settings and specify apps directly from `admin.py` using:
```python
from django_admin_magic.utils import (
    create_auto_admin_registrar,
    create_auto_admin_registrar_for_apps,
    create_auto_admin_registrar_for_all_apps,
)
```

These utilities respect the same safety checks as settings.
